CRS optional with default to OGC:CRS84 (#60)
opengeospatial/geoparquet: format-specs/geoparquet.md

| encoding | string | **REQUIRED** Name of the geometry encoding format. Currently only 'WKB' is supported. |
| crs       | string   | **Optional** [WKT2](https://docs.opengeospatial.org/is/18-010r7/18-010r7.html) string representing the Coordinate Reference System (CRS) of the geometry. The default value is [OGC:84](http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84)(long/lat coordinates) |
| edges | string | **OPTIONAL** Name of the coordinate system for the edges. Must be one of 'planar' or 'spherical'. The default value is 'planar'.  |
| bbox   | \[number] | **OPTIONAL** Bounding Box of the geometries in the file, formatted according to [RFC 7946, section 5](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946#section-5) |

#### crs

The Coordinate Reference System (CRS) is an optional parameter for each geometry column defined in geoparquet format. 

The CRS must be provided in [WKT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Well-known_text_representation_of_coordinate_reference_systems) version 2, also known as **WKT2**. WKT2 has several revisions, this specification only supports [WKT2_2019](https://docs.opengeospatial.org/is/18-010r7/18-010r7.html).

> 

Author: Done

| Field Name |                               Type                                      |                                                                   Description                                                                     |
| ---------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| encoding | string | **REQUIRED** Name of the geometry encoding format. Currently only 'WKB' is supported. |

> | crs       | string   | **OPTIONAL** [WKT2](https://docs.opengeospatial.org/is/18-010r7/18-010r7.html) string representing the Coordinate Reference System (CRS) of the geometry. The default value is [OGC:CRS84](http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84)(long/lat coordinates) |

Reviewer: Same https://github.com/opengeospatial/geoparquet/pull/60/files#r849714833

Reviewer: Same https://github.com/opengeospatial/geoparquet/pull/60/files#r849721020

> | crs       | string   | **OPTIONAL** [WKT2](https://docs.opengeospatial.org/is/18-010r7/18-010r7.html) string representing the Coordinate Reference System (CRS) of the geometry. The default value is [OGC:CRS84](https://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84) (longitude-latitude coordinates) |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| crs       | string   | **OPTIONAL** [WKT2](https://docs.opengeospatial.org/is/18-010r7/18-010r7.html) string representing the Coordinate Reference System (CRS) of the geometry. If the crs field is not included then the data in this column must be stored in longitude, latitude. In the case where a crs is not provided, CRS-aware implementations should assume a default value of [OGC:CRS84](https://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84) (longitude-latitude coordinates) |
```

| edges | string | **OPTIONAL** Name of the coordinate system for the edges. Must be one of 'planar' or 'spherical'. The default value is 'planar'.  |
| bbox   | \[number] | **OPTIONAL** Bounding Box of the geometries in the file, formatted according to [RFC 7946, section 5](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946#section-5) |
| epoch    | double | **OPTIONAL** Coordinate epoch in case of a dynamic CRS, expressed as a decimal year.  |

#### crs

The Coordinate Reference System (CRS) is an optional parameter for each geometry column defined in geoparquet format. 

The CRS must be provided in [WKT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Well-known_text_representation_of_coordinate_reference_systems) version 2, also known as **WKT2**. WKT2 has several revisions, this specification only supports [WKT2_2019](https://docs.opengeospatial.org/is/18-010r7/18-010r7.html).

> If CRS is not provided, the default value is [OGC:CRS84](http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84). It's equivalent to the wellknown [EPSG:4326](https://epsg.org/crs_4326/WGS-84.html) but changing the axis from Lat-Long to Long-Lat. WKT2:2019 string for OGC:CRS84 is:

Reviewer: Same https://github.com/opengeospatial/geoparquet/pull/60/files#r849714833

Reviewer: Same https://github.com/opengeospatial/geoparquet/pull/60/files#r849721020

> If CRS is not provided, the default value is [OGC:CRS84](https://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84). It's equivalent to the wellknown [EPSG:4326](https://epsg.org/crs_4326/WGS-84.html) but changing the axis from latitude-longitude to longitude-latitude. WKT2:2019 string for OGC:CRS84 is:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If CRS is not provided, then all coordinates in the geometry must use longitude, latitude to store their data.
If an implementation is CRS-aware and needs a CRS representation of the data it should assume a default value is [OGC:CRS84](https://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84). It's equivalent to the well-known [EPSG:4326](https://epsg.org/crs_4326/WGS-84.html) but changes the axis from latitude-longitude to longitude-latitude. The WKT2:2019 string for OGC:CRS84 is:
```

        MEMBER["World Geodetic System 1984 (G1674)"],
        MEMBER["World Geodetic System 1984 (G1762)"],
        MEMBER["World Geodetic System 1984 (G2139)"],
        ELLIPSOID["WGS 84",6378137,298.257223563,
            LENGTHUNIT["metre",1]],
        ENSEMBLEACCURACY[2.0]],
    PRIMEM["Greenwich",0,
        ANGLEUNIT["degree",0.0174532925199433]],
    CS[ellipsoidal,2],
        AXIS["geodetic longitude (Lon)",east,
            ORDER[1],
            ANGLEUNIT["degree",0.0174532925199433]],
        AXIS["geodetic latitude (Lat)",north,
            ORDER[2],
            ANGLEUNIT["degree",0.0174532925199433]],
    USAGE[
        SCOPE["Not known."],
        AREA["World."],
        BBOX[-90,-180,90,180]],
    ID["OGC","CRS84"]]
```

> Due to the large number of CRSes available and the difficulty of implementing all of them, we expect that a number of implementations will at least start with only supporting a single CRS. To maximize interoperability we strongly recommend GeoParquet tool providers to always implement support for [OGC:CRS84](http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84). 

Reviewer: There is a working `https` link. Let's use that instead.

https://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84

Offtopic: I noticed that the XML definition files point to the `http` links (for example https://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC). Does anyone know why and if it's possible to update those XML files?

```xml
<identifiers xmlns="http://www.opengis.net/crs-nts/1.0" xmlns:gco="http://www.isotc211.org/2005/gco" xmlns:gmd="http://www.isotc211.org/2005/gmd" at="http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC">
<identifier>http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/0</identifier>
<identifier>http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3</identifier>
</identifiers>
```

Reviewer 2: You mean that they are using http:// instead of https:// ? 

@ogcscotts should be able to help, or at least find the person to help.

Reviewer 3: I am checking with the latest discussions and conversations in the OGC Naming Authority... more very soon.

Reviewer 3: update: for OGC Registries, we have revised policy for https (https://github.com/opengeospatial/NamingAuthority/issues/108#issuecomment-1047735391)

for schemas.opengis.net, the Architecture Domain Working Group will be meeting in the next weeks and into June to work out a policy and implementation for http and https.

Reviewer: Sounds good. Thanks!

> Due to the large number of CRSes available and the difficulty of implementing all of them, we expect that a number of implementations will at least start with only supporting a single CRS. To maximize interoperability we strongly recommend GeoParquet tool providers to always implement support for [OGC:CRS84](https://www.opengis.net/def/crs/OGC/1.3/CRS84). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Due to the large number of CRSes available and the difficulty of implementing all of them, we expect that a number of implementations will start without support for the optional `crs` field. 
```

> Users are recommended to store their data in OGC:CRS84 (long/lat) for it to work with the widest number of tools. But data that is better served in particular projections can choose to use an alternate coordinate reference system. We expect many tools will support alternate CRSes, but encourage users to check.

Reviewer: I would use `OGC:CRS84 (longitude-latitude)` to make the spec more explicit

> Users are recommended to store their data in OGC:CRS84 (longitude-latitude) for it to work with the widest number of tools. But data that is better served in particular projections can choose to use an alternate coordinate reference system. We expect many tools will support alternate CRSes, but encourage users to check.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Users are recommended to store their data in longitude, latitude (OGC:CRS84 or not including the `crs` field) for it to work with the widest number of tools. But data that is better served in particular projections can choose to use an alternate coordinate reference system. We expect many tools will support alternate CRSes, but encourage users to check to ensure their chosen tool supports their chosen crs.
```
